Solid Resposibility principle
1. S --> Single Responsibility principle
Each class  should have single responsibility

2. O- Open closed principle
Class, Modules, functionalities should be open for extension but not for modification

3. Liskov Subsititude principle
Child class should replace  the parent class without breaking the behaviour of class

4. I - interface segregation Principle
Clients should not be forced to depend on the interface they do not want to use 

5. D - dependency inverion principle
High level module should not depend on low level module. Both should depend on abstractions



Design Patterns
There are three types of design patterns
1. Creational design patterns
Creational Design pattern provides various object creation mechanism, increases flexibility and better code reusability

a. Singleton
Lets you to ensure class should have a single instance, providing global access to the instance

b. Prototyoe
Lets you to copy the existing objects without making your code depedent on their classes

c. Abstract Factory
Lets you to create the families of related objects without specifying their concrete classes

d. factory method
Provies an interface for creating objects in superclass but allows subclass to alter the type of object that will be created

e.Builder 
Builder allows you tp produces different types and representations on objects using the same construction code

2. Structural Design Patterns
Structural Design Pattern explains how to assemble the objects and classes into larger structure while keeping this structure flexible and effiecient

a. adapter
Allows the objects with incompatible interfaces to collaborate

b Bridge
Bridge lets you to split the classes or set of closely related classes into two seperate hierarchies implementationa and abstraction which can be developed independently of each other

c. Compose
Let you to compose the objects into three like structure and then work on this structure as if they are individual

d. Decorator
Lets you the attach new behaviours to the objects by placing it in special wrapper objecs that has the behaviour

e. facade 
Provides a simplified interface to a library, framewrok or set of complex classes

f. flyweight
Lets you the store the more objects into the available RAM by sharing common parts of state among multiple objects instead of keeping the data in each object

g.proxy
Proxy allows you to keepthe placeholder for the object. Proxy has the access of original objects, allows you to peform something before or after the request getsthrought the original objects




Behavioural Design Pattern
Bahvioural design pattern deals with objects communication and interaction defining how objects collaborate and distributes responsibilities to manage compl;ex workflows, batter code reuasbility and make code flexible


a. Visitor
Lets you to seperate alogorithms from object which they operate

b.Iterator
Lets you to traverse the elements of collection which exposing their underlyinh representations


c. Mediator
Lets you to reduce chaotic dependencies betweeen objects. It reduces the direct communication betweenthe objects and force them to collaborate via mediator object

d. Observer
Lets you to define the subscription mechanism to notify the multiple objects about any event that may happen to the object they are observing

e. state 
Lets an object alter its behaviour when the internal state changes. it appears as if the object has changed the class







