Spring :
Spring is a light weight, modular, open source jaav framework used to build enterprise applications

Spring provides
Dependency Injection
Inversion of control
Web MVC
Transaction management

Advantages of spring 
1. Loose coupling
2. Easy Testing
3. Light weight container
4. pojo programming

Layers of Spring Architecture
1. Presentation Layer (Controller)
Acts as entry point for RestFul API requests. handles json conversion, handles input validation, interacts with the service layer usign @restcontroller or @controller

2.Business Layer(Service)
Contains all the business logic , transaction control etc often annoted with@Service

3. Persistance layer(DAO/Repository)
Manages database access, insertin reading storing etc using spring data JPA, JDBC Template, Hibernate often denoted as @Repository


Spring Framework
Spring framework is the lightweight, open source framework that provides comprehensive infrastructure to build enterprise applications.
It is basically a foundation for 
Spring boot
Spring Security
Spring Cloud
Spring MVC


Core concepts of Spring Framework
1 Dependency Injection
Dependency Injection are the design pattern in which object's depedencies are provided from outside instead objects creating it itself; DI is a part of IOC.

Dependency injection helps to achive 
Loose Coupling
Easy testing
Easier to manage complex depedencies

Types to achieve dependency injection
1.By contructor
2. By Setter Injection
3.By Field Injection : Injecting directly into the fiedld we canuse @Autowired as well here

Note : when there are multiple beans we can use @Qualifier


2. Inversion Of Control
Inversion of control is the design principle in spring framework where the control of object creation and lifecyle is being transferred from the application code to the container or framework
In simple words, spring IOC is repsonsible for when to create the objects aand when to wired them together. Framework basically creates and manages the object for you.

Advatages:
1. Loose Coupling
2. Better and easier to maintain the complex code 
3. Framework controls lifecyle


Types to achieve IOC
1. Dependency Injection
2. Factory Pattern (old / rare) uses ApplicationContext or beanfactory


ApplicationContext container= new AnnotationConfigApplicationConext(Config class)  -- Mostly used
Employee e=container.getBean(Employee.class)

Spring Bean 
A bean is an objects that is being created, confirgured and managed by IOC container

How spring decides which bean to injection
1.By Name
2. By Type
3. @Qualifier
4. @Primary == makes the bean as default bean


Stereotype Annotations 
Stereotype annoattions are the specail spring annotations used to mark the class as spring managed bean and indicates a role in application infratructure

Inshort It tells spring ioc to create and maintain the object of thuis class
Stereotype annotations available in spring ioc
@Component : Marks the class as component/mode
@Service : Indicates the service class
@Repository : Indicate the dao class where the database logic/connection will be available
@Controller : used for controller class

@Configuration : makes a class as a source class for all the bean definitions
@ComponentScan(BasePackage:" ") --Looks out for the classes that have stereotype annotations
@Bean -- used for legacy method which can not be modified  

@Primary : used to mnake the deafult bean
@Qualifier : if there are bean with same name, then we can give the qualifier name to the bean

Deafault scopes for pring IOC
@Singleton : Single object created for IOC Container
@Prototype : Object cleated everytime when the request has been made 
@Session : One object poer session
@Request :One object per request
@Websocket :One object per websocket



@Autowired
@Autowired annotation is used to automatically injects dependency into the spring bean 
In simple words, spring find the required bean and injects it automatically

We do not need to create the object

@Autowired can be used in three type 
By using constructor
By setter injection
By field injection

Types to achieve the autowiring 
1. By Name :Looks for the bean with same name
2. By Type :Looks for the bean with same type
3. @Primary
4. @Qualifier



Spring JDBC Template
JDBC template is a utility class in spring that simplifies jdbc programming by handling database connection, transactiona nd database operations

Advantages
1.Reduces BoilterPlate code
2.Easily integrates withe the spring DI
3. Provides easy methods to perform CRUD operations
4 Easiness for hnadling exceptions


Lifecycle
1. Gets connection from datasource
2. creates preared statemnt
3. Execues statement
4. Iterates the result into result
5. Handles the exceptions

Dependency required
Spring jdbc driver
SQL connector
Spring context

Methods available in spring jdbc template
1. update -- insert, update, delete
2. QueryForObject -- getById
3. Query == for select all

For fetching any data from the database, we will require the object of rowmapper
Rowmapper  == is an interface that basically tells jdbc how to map each row from resultset into java objects

In rowmmaper we sets the value using the setter by getting the property

AppConfig.class
@Configuration -- make the class as source class for all the bean definitions
@ComponetScan(basePackage =" ") -- basically looks out for all the stereotype annotations
@PropertySource("classpath : ") -- basically used to get all the properties from .properties file

@Autowired -- used to automatically inject dependency into the object rather than creating it manually
Environment env -- environment is a legacy class that is being used to load the properties and allowsw spring to read the property from .properties file

@bean -- used to get the legacy class
Datasource == datasource is the interface tthat is called as the source of database connections
the datasource we basically get all the databse properties by creating the obejct of DriverManagerDataSource 

In DAO 
we first get the JDBCtemplate object by autowiring 



